All right so now we're going to start to make our hotel Web site responsive because there's some things
that we need to change on on smaller screens.
So if we take a look the menu looks OK right now.
But if we add more links it's going to start to look funky down here.
I don't like this how this is these are too skinny to be side by side.
Also the text runs off.
These should be stacked as well.
So we basically want to stack everything that's that's being floated on larger screens on the about
page.
We want to stack these we probably want to change the line height for the heading down here.
These are coming out of its container because the height is fixed here and then contact the form looks
good with this.
These should be stack.
So if we have a few things that we need to change or just change on smaller screens now we could put
media queries right in our style dot CSX.
But this this style sheet is already pretty big.
So what I'm going to do is create a whole new style sheet in the CSX folder called Mobile dot CSX and
we're just going to go to our index and right below the style CSX link and we're going to copy that
down we'll change this to mobile and then we just want to add a media attribute and we're going to set
this to screen and and then a set of parentheses and we'll say Max with let's do 768 pixels.
So basically tablets and glass tablets smartphones any any small device and then that's that style sheet
should kick in.
So to test it out in Mobile CSX I'm just going to do a body and do display none which will make the
whole body disappear on small screen.
So I save that you'll see there's nothing showing until I hit that 768 breakpoint.
OK.
So we know that that is actually in effect.
So we'll get rid of that.
I just wanted to test it out now in our index file.
We're going to start with the menu which looks fine now but if I take this last list item the contact
link here and I go go down three more times and save you'll see that.
Now it looks messed up.
So what I want is everything to be centered the logo centered and then all the links to be in a vertical
fashion.
So what I'll do is I'm going to keep our style CSX open and take our mobile CSX and move it over to
this half way over to the right side.
That way we can see both at the same time and see what we need to change.
I'm also going to close up the sidebar here now for the nav bar.
Let's see.
Let's go down to our nav bar and were floating the H1 the logo to the left.
We're floating the well to the right.
We want to basically set those to float none so let's say nav bar H1.
And you know we should be actually targeting the logo class see the H1 has a class of logo so let's
actually do nav bar dot logo.
We'll do that here and over here.
Logo.
And then we're gonna set this to float.
None.
OK.
Just doing that's not going to change anything.
But we want it in the middle so we're gonna say text align center.
And if I save that now that's put in the center.
Now for these I want to first get rid of the float on the well you can see it's floated to the right.
I also want to get rid of the float on the allies.
OK.
So we want to remove both of those
now I could combine both float in my doing so say nav bar you l and let's also do nav bar ally and we
want to set both of them to float none and save
actually know what this.
This is not overwriting this because over here we specified the well so we'll just have to do that here
as well in order for it to overwrite it.
All right.
Now this comes down quite a bit in later on you're probably going to learn Javascript where you can
create some kind of button have and you can click it and then have this menu just kind of transition
down.
We may even get into some of that later on but right now we're just dealing with straight each team
LCROSS.
No animation anything like that.
So I think one thing we could do is get rid of some of the padding not make these so so wide so fat
so it doesn't come down as much.
So let's grab nav bar you well ally a you want to grab the link because that's where the padding is
if we look over here and as padding 20 pixels.
So I'm going to update that to be only five pixels on small screens.
All right.
Now they kind of look bunched together so what I'll do is add a border as well a very faint border so
let's do border bottom and let's do just a shade lighter we'll do four four four.
Let's do dotted as the style in one pixel.
OK.
So we'll save that.
And now that looks much better.
So we still have our hover effect.
Good.
So the next thing I want to do.
Actually let's get rid of those extra links that'll make it look better because it's not there won't
be as many links
OK.
So now we have a responsive menu.
So we have our standard nav bar and then we have our responsive now bar.
So the next thing I want to do is we'll skip the showcase.
When we test what the devices in the dev tools we may need to update this a little bit.
But for now let's move on to the home info section.
And one thing I want to change is the height.
OK if we go down to our home info I.D. it's 400.
I want to actually change it to 450 because it was covering the read more even than when it was a little
bit above 768.
Like right here on 400.
If I change it to 400 you can see that it kind of runs down a little bit.
So we want that to be 450 like that.
And then once we hit that 768 Mark and mobile CSF kicks in.
What I want to do is just get rid of that image completely and have this whole dark part with the tax
go all the way across.
So let's add in here home info and we're going to take the image.
So home dash info and I believe freight here it has a class of info image
and I'm actually going to set that to display none.
All right.
So now that image is gone.
Next thing we need to do is the info content which is this part here we need to get rid of the float
because right now it's float.
Right.
So we need to get rid of the flow.
Actually I'll just copy this whole thing
and we need to change the flow the width and the height.
OK so the float should be none.
And actually the height which the sleeve that put the width we want to change to 100 percent because
we want it to go all the way across.
So let's save that.
And there we go.
All right so you can see that this that these parts are now responsive once we hit that part it goes
down like that OK.
So the next part is the three boxes right here.
Now these have a class of box which are it's the same class it's on these as well so it's also going
to pertain to this basically any anywhere on the site where we want to or we want to line these boxes
up like this.
They have that box class right here.
So we want to clear those and then we want to set them to 100 percent.
That's really all we have to do.
So let's say boxes and Dot box you want to say float none.
And we want to set the width to 100 percent.
OK we'll save that.
And now you can see they're nicely stacked.
So that looks pretty good.
Now we're going to move on to the about page.
This is not going to take effect yet because we haven't added these the link tag to the about page.
So let's go to index and let's copy loops.
Let's just go to this index.
Let me close this up for a second.
So from index I'm going to copy this link to the mobile CSX which has this media attribute and I'm going
to put it in about right under the style CSX and save.
I'm also going to do it with contact.
So on the contact page right below style CSX will paste that in as well that way we have it working
on all pages.
So let's see.
Let's bring back mobile CSX and bring it over to the side
and close it up and we need to clear this float right here because if we look at the style CSX we have
info right which is float right.
We have info left which is float left and they're both 50 percent wide.
So what we need to do is clear are not clear but set float to none for both and set the width to 100
percent for both.
So let's get down here and let's say about and we're going to grab a boat info
info dash right.
And let's also grab a boat info info
dash left.
So we're doing the same thing for both.
So we might as well just just put them both on on the same style.
So let's do float.
None.
And let's do with
100 percent and save.
All right.
Cool.
Now for the heading here I actually want this to be aligned to the center.
So if you remember this has a class of L heading.
So I'm just going to grab that class l dash heading and we're going to text aligned to the center
and then another thing I want to do is the L heading in the style CSX.
I just want to add a line height to because the words we're running into each other so see where as
it should be up here at the utility right here.
So l heading I'm going to say the line height it's change it to one point one point two.
All right now let's see what else do we want to do here.
The info right.
Which is the image I kind of want to move that down a little bit.
I think it's too close right here.
So I'm going to grab this
or go right here and we'll just add a margin top to it.
So it's two 30 pixels.
OK so that move that down a little bit.
All right.
Now the testimonials here you can see that the boxes are kind of coming out a little bit.
So to fix that we should probably actually put that in the style sheet over here.
So let's find testimonials
OK.
So we get height 600 pixels.
What if we just set this to height one hundred percent.
There we go.
So that fixes that we don't even have to add anything special there so that looks pretty good to me.
Now let's go to the contact and notice that these are already stacked because remember these have a
class of box and we've already clear it.
We've already done the float nine we've already done with 100 percent.
One thing that I would like to do though is have a border because I think there's just I don't know
it looks like this too much space in between here.
So let's go down here we'll say contact and let's target the contact dash info and we want to target
the box class inside there not just dot box because we don't want borders on the in the other boxes
which are on the home page you don't need that because as you can see they kind of revolve the colors
so we don't need it there but for the contact boxes let's do border bottom.
It's 2 4 4 4 dotted one pixel and save.
And I can see we have the board I just think it gives it a little just a little texture I guess.
OK.
Cool so what else do we want to do here.
I think we're ready to start testing it on the actual devices so I'm going to make this bigger I'm going
to open up our dev tools and let's click on the device icon here and for this course I'm only going
to be testing on iPhone X 6 7 8 galaxy I don't care about iPhone 5 because the screen size is so small
that we'll have to add extra media queries just for that and not too many people have an iPhone 5 anymore.
If you want to add those add those styles yourself you can do that but we're not going to focus on that.
So let's see if we look at this.
This looks pretty good.
One thing I would I notice though is that this is pushed down quite a bit.
So we may want to look into that about page looks good.
This is pushed down quite a bit.
Contact page looks good.
All right.
Let's look at iPhone 6 7 8 so kind of same thing really looks good.
Let's try.
The Galaxy
Yeah.
Pretty much all the same but if we look at the iPhone 5 you can see that the screen is so small that
it kind of messes up a little bit.
So you might want to just mess with the heights and stuff like that but I'm not I don't want to get
too deep into this.
I just want it to look good on.
On on modern iPhones in the galaxy pixels pixel also looks good.
So let's let's change this right here.
The spacing I'm going to go back into mobile CSX and let's go above or actually let's go right below
where the nav bar is
and let's say showcase and actually showcase and we want the I.D. showcase and I'm going to set the
height to 100 percent case you we have the height at 100 percent now and then I'm going to set the padding
top to 70 pixels and I'm gonna add some padding to the bottom.
Right now the padding is what is the padding on showcase see.
Yeah.
Showcase 0 8.
Padding top.
I'm sorry not showcase showcase content.
The padding top is 170.
So I'm going to change it to 70 which will move it up.
So let's actually just grab this and then we can take these.
So we'll do padding talks 70 and then to add some space on the bottom.
Let's do padding bottom 30 pixels.
And there we go.
That looks much better.
That's the pixel too.
So if you look at the eye I iPhone and let's take a look at the I pad.
That's the I pad
good and the I Pad Pro is just going to look like the desktop because it's so wide OK.
So now what I want to do is check out the landscape view so let's hit the landscape and if you wanted
to you could put a media query for the height and you could you could lessen the padding here but I
think it's fine because as we scroll it looks good you know.
But if you absolutely need to have this above the fold when the when the person lands on the page in
landscape mode you could do that.
But yeah the rest of it you can see the floats are intact because the width is eight twelve hour our
break breakpoint is seven sixty eight.
So these are still going to be floated along with the menu.
If you go to the about you can see we have our floats.
OK.
Everything looks good contact boxes are floated.
Good.
So I think that we're we're in good shape here.
And as I mentioned it's more difficult to make your site responsive when you're using floats floats
are almost like a hack.
They're almost like a CSX hack to to align your elements.
But in the next section we're going to start to look at flex box which is a much much better way to
align things.
You also have CSX grid.
Some people choose like to choose one or the other I think that's silly I think that there's certain
situations for flex in the certain situations for the grid system.
And I'll kind of go over those differences as we move along.
All right.
So that's it.
I hope you're enjoying the course and I'll see you in the next video.